new blog post on geographic segmentation (#9)
myelnet/myel.network: _posts/segmentation.md

---

> title: 'Region-based Network Segmentation for Decentralized Content Discovery'

Reviewer: @alexander-camuto debating changing to
```suggestion
title: 'Region-based Network Segmentation for Decentralized Content Routing'
```

##### Region-based Segmentation using Gossipsub

To optimize this system we introduce the concept of `regions'. 
Regions segment the network via Gossipsub topics defined around peer declared geographic locations. To preserve the privacy of providers we do not record the location of a device and instead let users declare the region they wish to serve. It is in the best interest of a provider to pick the region according to their location and peers subscribed to a same region topic should have similar latency, allowing for a faster propagation of Gossipsub messages. 

#### Experiments

In our setup we assume the content has already been dispatched to the network of caches, and that the client sending the query for content can find the address of at least one other live node and use it to bootstrap a routing table.

> Our implementation uses libp2p's Kademelia Distributed Hash Table (DHT) **[6]** routing and Gossipsub routing algorithm (For a detailed overview of our implementation we refer the reader to [this repo]( https://github.com/myelnet/pop/tree/dev/testplans/discovery) ). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our implementation uses libp2p's Kademelia Distributed Hash Table (DHT) **[6]** routing and Gossipsub routing algorithm (For a detailed overview of our implementation we refer the reader to [this repo]( https://github.com/myelnet/pop/blob/9ec6edd7abd13004a64d73d44bc877b926c5ef0d/testplans/routing.md) ). 
```

Reviewer: @alexander-camuto I would also specify "Our implementation uses libp2p's Kademelia Distributed Hash Table (DHT) **[6]** routing _for peer discovery_"

![](/assets/blog/discovery_res_combined.png) 
*Figure 1: Here we test the scalability of the three content discovery methods on our test networks for a number of peers $ \in [10,20,30,40]$. **[left]** We measure the time for a client to discover the content in each of these setups (milliseconds). **[right]** We measure the percent difference in content discovery time w.r.t the setup with 10 peers. For both plots shading represents the standard deviation over 24 runs. Clearly the approach that segments the network by region is most performant and scales better as more peers join.*

##### Discussion and Conclusion

The results of these experiments can be seen in Figure 1 . Clearly the Region based segmentation outperforms other methods of discovery and scales better as more peers are added. Given these results our aim now will be to further test this system with a greater number of peers.

> In the meantime you can [sign up](https://www.myel.network/#/sign-up) to try it out or if you have any feedback you can open an issue directly on the [repo](https://github.com/myelnet/go-hop-exchange).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the meantime you can [sign up](/sign-up) to try it out or if you have any feedback you can open an issue directly on the [repo](https://github.com/myelnet/pop).
```
